---
title:  "Measure Theory 02"
date:   2022-12-30 07:00:00 +0200
categories: math
tags: math
math: true
---


{% include embed/youtube.html id='ZyiI3cARLT0' %}

# Classes of Subsets

## Semi-Algebras

**Definition:** $$\mathscr{S} \subseteq \mathscr{P}(\Omega)$$ is a semi-algebra, if and only if:

(i) $$\Omega \in \mathscr{S}$$

(ii) $$A, B \in \mathscr{S} \implies A \cap B \in \mathscr{S}$$

(iii) $$\forall A \in \mathscr{S}, \exists E_1, \dots, E_h \in \mathscr{S}$$, such that $$A^c = \sum_{j=1}^h E_j$$.

**Example:** $$\Omega = \mathbb{R}$$.
Then semi-algebra $$\mathscr{S}$$ includes

$$
\begin{align}
&\mathbb{R}, \emptyset\\
& \{(a,b], a < b, a,b \in \mathbb{R}\}\\
& \{(-\infty, b], b \in \mathbb{R}\}\\
& \{(a, \infty), a \in \mathbb{R}\}
\end{align}
$$

**Example:** $$\Omega = (0,1)$$, the semi-algebra $$\mathscr{S}$$ includes

$$
\begin{align}
&(0,1), \emptyset, \{(a,b], 0 \le a < b < 1\}
\end{align}
$$

## Algebras

**Definition:** $$\mathscr{A} \in \mathscr{P}(\Omega)$$ is an algebra if and only if

(i) $$\Omega \in \mathscr{A}$$

(ii) $$A,B \in \mathscr{A} \implies A \cap B \in \mathscr{A}$$

(iii) $$A \in \mathscr{A} \implies A^c \in \mathscr{A}$$

**Observation:**

- If $$\mathscr{A}$$ is an algebra, then $$\mathscr{A}$$ is semi-algebra. [assertion 01].

- $$A, B \in \mathscr{A} \implies A \cup B \in \mathscr{A}$$, since $$A \cup B = (A^c \cap B^c)^c$$.

- If $$\mathscr{A}_{\alpha} \subseteq \mathscr{P}(\Omega)$$ is algebra for each $$\alpha \in I$$, where $$I$$ can be any index set (it can be uncountable).
Then $$\cap_{\alpha \in I} \mathscr{A}_{\alpha}$$ is an algebra. [assertion 02]

### Algebra Generated By The Class $$\mathscr{C}$$

The algebra generabted by $$\mathscr{C} \subseteq \mathscr{P}(\Omega)$$ is defined as $$\mathscr{A}(\mathscr{C})$$, such that

(i) $$\mathscr{C} \subseteq \mathscr{A}(\mathscr{C})$$

(ii) For any algebra $$\mathscr{B}, \mathscr{B} \supseteq \mathscr{C} \implies \mathscr{B} \supseteq \mathscr{A}(\mathscr{C})$$, i.e., $$\mathscr{A}(\mathscr{C})$$ is the smallest algebra containing $$\mathscr{C}$$.

$$
\cap_{\alpha} \mathscr{A}_{\alpha}
$$

> TODO: question, this is similar to infimum, but can we be sure the infimum exists like in the real number? For example, we take all the interval such that there exists element $$a < 0$$ and $$b > 1$$. Then does $$\cap_{\alpha} A_{\alpha}$$ exists?
{: .prompt-warning }

- &nbsp; $$a \in A_{\alpha} \forall \alpha \quad \implies \quad a \in \cap_{\alpha} A_{\alpha}$$

- &nbsp; $$\exists \alpha, a \notin A_{\alpha}, \quad \implies a \notin \cap_{\alpha} A_{\alpha}$$.

- Godel's incompleteness theorems.


**Lemma:** $$\mathscr{S} \subseteq \mathscr{P}(\Omega)$$ is a semi-algebra. Then

$$
A \in \mathscr{A}(\mathscr{S}) \quad \iff \quad \exists \text{ disjoint } E_j \in \mathscr{S}, 1 \le j \le n, \text{ such that } A = \sum_{j=1}^{n} E_j
$$

or it is all the finite unions of disjoint sets.

$$
\mathscr{A}(\mathscr{S}) = \{ \sum_{j=1}^n E_j, \forall \text{ disjoint } E_j \in \mathscr{S}, \forall n = 1, 2, 3, \dots\}
$$

## $$\sigma$$-Algebras

**Definition:** $$\mathscr{F} \subseteq \mathscr{P}(\Omega)$$ is $$\sigma$$-algebra if and only if

(i) $$\Omega \in \mathscr{F}$$

(ii) $$A_j \in \mathscr{F} \implies \cap_{j\ge 1} A_j \in \mathscr{F}$$

(iii) $$A \in \mathscr{F} \implies A^c \in \mathscr{F}$$

**Observation:**

- If $$\mathscr{F}$$ is a $$\sigma$$-algebra, then $$\mathscr{F}$$ is algebra, $$\mathscr{F}$$ is semi-algebra.

- $$A_j \in \mathscr{F} \implies \cup_{j \ge 1} A_j \in \mathscr{F}$$, since $$\cup_{j \ge 1} A_j = (\cap_{j \ge 1} A_j^c)^c$$

- If $$\mathscr{F}_{\alpha} \subseteq \mathscr{P}(\Omega)$$ is $$\sigma$$-algebra for each $$\alpha \in I$$, where $$I$$ can be any index set (it can be uncountable).
Then $$\cap_{\alpha \in I} \mathscr{F}_{\alpha}$$ is a $$\sigma$$-algebra.

### $$\sigma$$-Algebra Generated By The Class $$\mathscr{C}$$


## $$\mu$$ Function

### Additive

Given $$\mathscr{C} \subseteq \mathscr{P}(\Omega)$$ and $$\emptyset \in \mathscr{C}$$.
The function $$\mu: \mathscr{C} \to \mathbb{R}_+ \cup \{\infty\}$$ is additive, if and only if

(i) $$\mu(\emptyset) = 0$$

(ii) if disjoint $$E_1, E_2, \dots, E_n \in \mathscr{C}$$, and $$E = \sum_{j=1}^{n}E_j \in \mathscr{C}$$, then $$\mu(E) = \sum_{j=1}^n \mu(E_j)$$.

### $$\sigma$$-Additive

Given $$\mathscr{C} \subseteq \mathscr{P}(\Omega)$$ and $$\emptyset \in \mathscr{C}$$.
The function $$\mu: \mathscr{C} \to \mathbb{R}_+ \cup \{\infty\}$$ is $$\sigma$$-additive, if and only if

(i) $$\mu(\emptyset) = 0$$

(ii) if disjoint $$E_1, E_2, \dots, E_j, \dots \in \mathscr{C}$$, and $$E = \sum_{j\ge 1}E_j \in \mathscr{C}$$, then $$\mu(E) = \sum_{j\ge 1} \mu(E_j)$$.

### Example: Additive But Not $$\sigma$$-Additive

Let $$\Omega = (0,1), \mathscr{C} = {(a,b], 0 \le a < b < 1}$$

$$
\mu((a,b]) = \begin{cases}
\infty, & a = 0 \\
b-a, & a > 0
\end{cases}
$$

# Proofs

- Assertion 01: If $$\mathscr{A}$$ is an algebra, then $$\mathscr{A}$$ is semi-algebra.

**Proof:** We can verify $$\mathscr{A}$$ is semi-algebra.

(i) $$\Omega \in \mathscr{A}$$

(ii) $$A, B \in \mathscr{A} \implies A \cap B \in \mathscr{A}$$

(iii) $$\forall A \in \mathscr{A}, A^c = A^c \in \mathscr{A}$$

- Assertion 02: If $$\mathscr{A}_{\alpha} \subseteq \mathscr{P}(\Omega)$$ is algebra for each $$\alpha \in I$$, where $$I$$ is any general index set. Then $$\cap_{\alpha \in I} \mathscr{A}_{\alpha}$$ is an algebra.

**Proof:** We can verify $$\cap_{\alpha} \mathscr{A}_{\alpha}$$ is an algebra

(i) $$\mathscr{A}_{\alpha} $$ is an algebra $$\implies \Omega \in \mathscr{A}_{\alpha} \implies \Omega \in \cap_{\alpha} \mathscr{A}_{\alpha}$$

(ii) for any $$A, B \in \cap_{\alpha} \mathscr{A}_{\alpha}$$, we know $$ A, B \in \mathscr{A}_{\alpha} \forall \alpha $$, then $$A \cap B \in \mathscr{A}_{\alpha} \forall \alpha$$, then $$A \cap B \in \cap_{\alpha} \mathscr{A}_{\alpha}$$

(iii) similar to above $$A \in \cap_{\alpha} \mathscr{A}_{\alpha} \implies A^c \in \cap_{\alpha} \mathscr{A}_{\alpha}$$
